README.md, before:

[![View on GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-View_on_GitHub-blue?logo=GitHub)](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets) [![Engineering for Data Science](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugo-Engineering%20For%20Data%20Science-yellowgreen?logo=hugo)](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/)

# Engineering for Data Science (e4ds) - Snippets

Collection of useful data science, machine learning and data engineering topics with code examples linked to posts in my blog [engineeringfordatascience.com](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/archives/)

## Contents

- [Best Practices](#bp)
- [GCP](#gcp)
- [Matplotlib](#mpl)
- [Jupyter](#j)
- [Pandas](#pandas)
- [PySpark](#pyspark)
- [PyTest](#pytest)
- [Web Scraping](#web-scraping)


<a id='bp'></a>
## Best Practices
Articles about Python and data science best practices

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Which Python string formatting method should you be using in your data science project? | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/python_string_formatting_for_data_science/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/blob/master/best-practices/string-formatting/)|
| Reproducible ML: Maybe you shouldn't be using Sklearn's train_test_split | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/ml_repeatable_splitting_using_hashing/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/blob/master/best-practices/repeatable-splitting/)|
| Setting up logging for Python projects | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/python_logging/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/best-practices/setting-up-logging)|


<a id='mpl'></a>
## Matplotlib

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Plotting subplots in a loop | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/matplotlib_subplots/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/matplotlib/subplots_in_loop.ipynb)|
| Making impactful charts using plt.suptitle | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/matplotlib_subtitles/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/matplotlib/suptitles.ipynb)|

<a id='j'></a>
## Jupyter

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| (Part 1) Voilà! Interactive Python Dashboards Straight from your Jupyter Notebook | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/voila_python_dashboard_part1/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/jupyter/voila)|
| (Part 2) Voilà! Optimising Python Dashboard Performance | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/voila_python_dashboard_part2/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/jupyter/voila)|
| (Part 3) Voilà! Deploy your Jupyter Notebook Based Python Dashboard on Heroku | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/voila_python_dashboard_part3/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/jupyter/voila)|

<a id='pandas'></a>
## Pandas

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| SQL-like Window Functions in Pandas | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/sql_like_window_functions_in_pandas/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pandas)|

<a id='pyspark'></a>
## PySpark

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Unit testing in PySpark | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/pyspark_unit_testing_with_pytest/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pyspark/pyspark_unit_testing)|
| How to save the output of PySpark DataFrame 'show' to a variable | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/pyspark_save_show_string_to_variable/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pyspark/show_string)|

<a id='pytest'></a>
## PyTest

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| How to use fixtures as arguments in parametrize | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/pytest_fixtures_with_parameterize) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/fixtures_and_parametrize)|
| Tips for using PyTest | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/tips_for_using_pytest) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/pytest_tips)|
| How to mock sending SMTP emails using PyTest | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/mock_smtp_email_using_pytest/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/unit_test_sending_emails)|
| How to use allure-pytest and allure-pytest-bdd plugins in the same project | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/how_to_use_allure_pytest_bdd_and_allure_pytest_in_the_same_project/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/allure_pytest_bdd_and_allure_pytest)|

<a id='gcp'></a>
## Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Event Driven Data Validation with Google Cloud Functions and Great Expectations | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/event_driven_data_validation_with_google_cloud_functions_and_great_expectations/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/gcp/cloud-functions/event-driven-testing)|
| Google Search Console API with Python | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/google_search_console_api_python/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/gcp/search-console)|

<a id='web-scraping'></a>
## Web Scraping & Automation

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Export Spotify Playlist to CSV File with Python | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/export_spotify_playlist_to_csv_using_python/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/web-scraping/spotify)|

Commit message:

Write pyspark dataframe to single file code examples

README.md, after:

[![View on GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-View_on_GitHub-blue?logo=GitHub)](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets) [![Engineering for Data Science](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugo-Engineering%20For%20Data%20Science-yellowgreen?logo=hugo)](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/)

# Engineering for Data Science (e4ds) - Snippets

Collection of useful data science, machine learning and data engineering topics with code examples linked to posts in my blog [engineeringfordatascience.com](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/archives/)

## Contents

- [Best Practices](#bp)
- [GCP](#gcp)
- [Matplotlib](#mpl)
- [Jupyter](#j)
- [Pandas](#pandas)
- [PySpark](#pyspark)
- [PyTest](#pytest)
- [Web Scraping](#web-scraping)


<a id='bp'></a>
## Best Practices
Articles about Python and data science best practices

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Which Python string formatting method should you be using in your data science project? | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/python_string_formatting_for_data_science/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/blob/master/best-practices/string-formatting/)|
| Reproducible ML: Maybe you shouldn't be using Sklearn's train_test_split | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/ml_repeatable_splitting_using_hashing/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/blob/master/best-practices/repeatable-splitting/)|
| Setting up logging for Python projects | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/python_logging/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/best-practices/setting-up-logging)|


<a id='mpl'></a>
## Matplotlib

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Plotting subplots in a loop | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/matplotlib_subplots/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/matplotlib/subplots_in_loop.ipynb)|
| Making impactful charts using plt.suptitle | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/matplotlib_subtitles/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/matplotlib/suptitles.ipynb)|

<a id='j'></a>
## Jupyter

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| (Part 1) Voilà! Interactive Python Dashboards Straight from your Jupyter Notebook | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/voila_python_dashboard_part1/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/jupyter/voila)|
| (Part 2) Voilà! Optimising Python Dashboard Performance | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/voila_python_dashboard_part2/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/jupyter/voila)|
| (Part 3) Voilà! Deploy your Jupyter Notebook Based Python Dashboard on Heroku | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/voila_python_dashboard_part3/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/jupyter/voila)|

<a id='pandas'></a>
## Pandas

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| SQL-like Window Functions in Pandas | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/sql_like_window_functions_in_pandas/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pandas)|

<a id='pyspark'></a>
## PySpark

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Unit testing in PySpark | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/pyspark_unit_testing_with_pytest/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pyspark/pyspark_unit_testing)|
| How to save the output of PySpark DataFrame 'show' to a variable | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/pyspark_save_show_string_to_variable/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pyspark/show_string)|
| How to save a PySpark dataframe to a single output file | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/how_to_save_pyspark_dataframe_to_single_output_file/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pyspark/write_dataframe_to_single_file)|

<a id='pytest'></a>
## PyTest

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| How to use fixtures as arguments in parametrize | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/pytest_fixtures_with_parameterize) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/fixtures_and_parametrize)|
| Tips for using PyTest | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/tips_for_using_pytest) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/pytest_tips)|
| How to mock sending SMTP emails using PyTest | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/mock_smtp_email_using_pytest/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/unit_test_sending_emails)|
| How to use allure-pytest and allure-pytest-bdd plugins in the same project | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/how_to_use_allure_pytest_bdd_and_allure_pytest_in_the_same_project/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/pytest/allure_pytest_bdd_and_allure_pytest)|

<a id='gcp'></a>
## Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Event Driven Data Validation with Google Cloud Functions and Great Expectations | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/event_driven_data_validation_with_google_cloud_functions_and_great_expectations/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/gcp/cloud-functions/event-driven-testing)|
| Google Search Console API with Python | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/google_search_console_api_python/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/gcp/search-console)|

<a id='web-scraping'></a>
## Web Scraping & Automation

|Title|Article|Repository|
|-------------|:-------------:|:----------:|
| Export Spotify Playlist to CSV File with Python | [Blog](https://engineeringfordatascience.com/posts/export_spotify_playlist_to_csv_using_python/) | [Link](https://github.com/julian-west/e4ds-snippets/tree/master/web-scraping/spotify)|
